basics
-
- Code of js could be directly stuffed into the ``<head>..<\head>`` part of the html file or can be written into a single .js file and imported into the head by ``<script src=".."><\script>``
- One .js file could be imported to many HTML files and one HTML file could include many .js files by ``<script>..<\script>``.  
- You can use ``<scrpit type=".."><\script>`` to use a certain type of script, but by default it would be "text/javascript".  
- Code after a ``//`` or between a ``/* .. */`` would be ignored by the engine.  
- In google chrome, f12 would toggle the developer tools and the console could be used to test the code.  
- To find a variable in the console, you can use ``console.log(variableName)`` in the console.  

grammar
-
- Js does not have int or floats, all numbers are of type ``Number``.  
- js has both ``==`` and ``===`` for equality. ``==`` would change the type of the values if they are different and ``===`` would return ``false`` in such case. Also NaN is never equal to anything (including itself), but you can use the ``isNaN(value)`` to check if it is NaN.  
- You can never have two equal floats, so the only way to check if two floats are very close is to check if their difference is very small.  
- ``null`` means an empty value and should be used as so,  ``undefined`` should only be used to see whether parameters are passed into functions.  
- Arrays in js could contain any type and could be created by ``new Array(elements);``, note that the elements inside should be separated by ``,``.  
- Object in js is a collection of key-value combinations. 
eg.  
````
var person = {
    name: 'Bob',
    age: 20,
    tags: ['js', 'web', 'mobile'],
    city: 'Beijing',
    hasCar: true,
    zipcode: null
};
````
where the keys are all strings and each key is called a property. Properties could be accessed by ``objectVariable.propertyName`` (eg. ``person.name``). 
- Variables in js are declared by ``var name=value;`` and the name cannot start with a number and can only contain two signs `&` and `_`.  
- js variables can be declared without a ``var`` before, but if done so then all variables would become global variables. To prevent this from happening, we should use the strict mode by adding `'use strict';` on the first line of the js script. By doing so, all variables would have to be declared by a ``var`` and if not there would be an error.  
- When writing a string, you can use ``\`` to make the signs part of the string. (eg. "I\'m \"OK\"";)  
- You can use \`.....................` to write a string that has many lines.  
- ``+`` could be used to append strings but if you want variables directly in a string, you can do ``string ${variable} string`` and the variable would automatically be replaced by the value.  
- Elements in a string could be accessed like ones in an array, but they cannot be changed.  
- Here are some string functions (``var s = 'Hello world';):  
    -  ``s.length; // 11``
    - ``s.toUpperCase(); // 'HELLO WORLD'``
    - ``s.toLowerCase(); // 'hello world'``
    - ``s.indexOf(world); // 7``
    - ``s.substring(0, 5); // 'Hello'`` doesn't include index 5
    - ``s.substring(6); //world``
- Arrays have many similar functions with strings:  
    - `length`, you can even assign it `arr.length = 5 `
    - `indexof()`   
    - `slice` as for `substring`(just `slice()` would return a copy of the array)    
    - `push()` to add in elements at the end and `pop()` to remove from the end  
    - `unshift()` to add in elements at the start and `shift()` to remove the first element.  
    - `sort()` to sort the array and `reverse()` to reverse it  
    - `concat()`connect the array with another and return a new array.  
    -  `join()` connect all the elements into a string with the parameter between them.  
    - `splice(where_to_work_with, how_many_to_delete, elements_to_add)` this deletes a certain number of elements after the index and adds elements after the index.  
- Objects can be made in js and are combinations of key-value pairs.  
  eg.  
````
var xiaoming = {
    name: '小明',
    birth: 1990,
    school: 'No.1 Middle School',
    height: 1.70,
    weight: 65,
    score: null
};
````  
- {..} represents an object and it contains pairs of key and value in the form `key: value` separated by `,`.  
- if the key names are not legal variable names, then they have to be within `'..'` and could only be accessed by `object['key']`.  
- Accessing a not existing property would return `undefined`.  
- You can delete a property by `delete object['key']`.  
- You can use `'key' in object` to see if a property is in the object (this will return a bool), but it will also include the properties from the `object` class. If you just want to see if the property is in this specific object, then you can use `object.hasOwnProperty('key')`.  
  
- js renders `null`, `undefined`, `0`, `Nan` as false and all the other values as true.  
- the loop `for(;;){}` would act as `while(true)`.  
- you can use the `for(var a in b)` and the `for(var a of b)` loop in js. The for..in loop uses the key (index) of the elements and may use some weird elements of an array, while the for..of loop uses the values and for an array would only return the elements within the array.  
- Another way to loop through is to use the forEach() function of iterable variables, but this would not work for a set.  
- For a Map, it would iterate first through its value then key and then the map itself.
- the `do {} while()` loop could be used to check the condition after the loop.  
- A map is a collection of key-value pairs.  
  - To create a map, you can use 
  ````var m = new Map([['a', v], ['b', v], ['c', v]]);````  
  - `m.get('a')` to get the value of a.  
  - `m.set('d', v)` to add the 'd' pair to the map. Adding an existing pair will replace the old one.  
  - `m.has('a')` to see if a is in the map.  
  - `m.delete('a')` to remove the 'a' pair from the map.  
- A set is like a map, but doesn't store any value:  
  - `var s = new Set([1,2,3]);` to create a set.  
  - `s.add(4)` to add to the set.  
  - `s.delete(4)` to delete from the set.  
  
function  
-  
- there are two ways to declare a function in js: ``var Function = function () {..}`` or ``function Function() {..}``.  
- without a return statement, the function would return undefined.  
- js is totally fine with having more or less parameters passed in.  
- in a function, ``arguments`` would become an 'array' of all the parameters (it is not really an array). Also ``arguments.length`` would return the number of parameters.  
- you can add a ``...rest`` at the end of the parameters when declaring the function, so that in this function ``rest`` would be the array of parameters that were passed but not stated when declaring.  
- never have the return statement in two lines.  
- in the case that function a is within function b, if both functions contain variable x, then when calling a, it would use the variable x in itself instead of the one in b.  
- when we declare variables in functions, we should always declare the variables at the top of the function, or else js would do it for us without giving it a value (still gives it the value to the point you say so but not at the top). 
- all global variables (including functions) are within the `window` name space. So when you use different scripts that have the same global variable, there could be a conflict. To solve this you should declare a name space by `var name_space = {};` and then every time you declare a global variable, you should use `name_space.variable = value;` or `name_space.Function = function () {};` to declare them in the name space.  
- using `let` instead of `var` could make the variable only available for one block (for loop).  
- use `const` to declare constant types.  
- you can use `var [x, y, z] = [a, b, c]` to assign many variables at the same time. You can even `var [ , y, z] = [a, b, c]` to ignore a.  
- you can now even extract from objects, by `var {prop1, prop2, prop3='a'} = Object`. If the prop doesn't exist, then it would become undefined, to prevent this you can assign a default like for `prop3`. If you have already declared the variables but want to assign them, then remember to add the statement in `(..)`.  
- in an object, `this` should only be one layer within the method and the method must be in the object. If you want to call the object's property within a function in a method of the object, you must first declare a variable to replace `this` like `var that = this;` in the method.  
- if you declared a method out side of the object, then you can use the `apply()` function of functions to apply it to the object. It can tell which object `this` should point to according to which object it is applied. Do this by `Function.apply(Object, [])` where the array is an array of the parameters of the function. Or you can use the `call()` function instead, which doesn't need to parameters to be called in an array but instead one by one, eg. `Function.call(Object, param1, param2, param3)`   
- you can add special features to a already existing function, here is an example of doing so: 
````
    var count = 0;
    var oldParseInt = parseInt;
    window.parseInt = function () {
        count += 1;
        return oldParseInt.apply(null, arguments);
    };
    ````
