function
-
- higher order functions -> functions that take another function as a parameter.  
- the `array` type has the `map()` method. `arr.map(fun)`  returns a new array with the elements all passed into fun and replaced with their results.  
- `array` type has `reduce()` method, the function this method takes in must have two params. `arr.reduce(fun(x, y) {})`  applies the fun to the elements pair by pair to return one single result.  
- `array` has `filter()` method, takes in one function that returns bool. `arr.filter(fun)` returns new array with only the elements that return true.  `fun` can have 1 or 3 params, if 3, then it is `(element, index, self)` where `self` means the array.  
- `array` has the `sort()` method, but it uses the ASCII code to compare and treats numbers as strings to compare. `sort` is higher order and can take in a function to manipulate it. eg. 
````
arr.sort(function (x, y) {
    if (x < y) {
        return -1;
    }
    if (x > y) {
        return 1;
    }
    return 0;
});
````  
`sort()` doesn't return a new array!  
- If `sort()` for array of strings, add 
````
    x = string1.toUpperCase();
    y = string2.toUpperCase();
````
at the top of function.  
- if function A in function B, function B can `return A` and A will not be calculated until it is used, but A should never include any loop variable or or changing variable. If really need so, do something like this:
````
function count() {
    var arr = [];
    for (var i=1; i<=3; i++) {
        arr.push((function (n) {
            return function () {
                return n * n;
            }
        })(i));
    }
    return arr;
}
````
- this could be used to make `'private'` functions or variables without `class`.  
- it could also make functions with multiple params into ones with less. eg.  
````
function make_pow(n) {
    return function (x) {
        return Math.pow(x, n);
    }
}
var pow2 = make_pow(2);
var pow3 = make_pow(3);
console.log(pow2(5)); // 25
console.log(pow3(7)); // 343
````  
- js uses anonymous functions. eg. `(function(x) {..})(2)`  
- js also has arrow function that acts like anonymous functions. eg `x => x*x;` or `x=> {..}` or `(x, y)=>{..}`. If there is only one statement, then don't add `{ }`.  
- the difference between arrow and other functions, is the `this` problem. Using arrow function in a method, you don't need to save `this` and can use it directly, but at the same time, you cannot use the `call()` or `apply()` function to change the prop pointed by `this`.  
- js has generator functions declared by `function*`, it can use `yield` instead of `return`. When the generation is called, it only forms the generator but not the value. `Generator.next()` would give the first value of the yield and pause the calculation, then repeat ant would get the next yield and so on.  

objects
-
- in js, `typeof` could return the type of things. eg `typeof 12;`  
- when using `new` to declare a var, it becomes of type `object`. eg. `typeof new Number(123); //'object'`, so best to not use them to declare primitive types.  
- as `typeof` cannot see `Array`, to see if an object is an Array: `Array.isArray(arr)`.  
- use `Variable === null` to see if is null.  
- use `typeof Variable === 'undefined'` to see if variable exists.  
- use `typeof window.Variable === 'undefined'` to see if variable is global.  
- all objects but null and undefined have `toString` method, but for a number to string, it must be `(123).toString();` with the `(..)` very important.  
- js has the `Date` object to show time (eg. `var now = new Date()`):  
  - `now` is the time now.  
  - `now.getFullYear()`  
  - `now.getMonth()` starts from 0 to 11.  
  - `now.getDate()` the nth of this month.  
  - `now.getDay()` eg Monday.  
  - `now.getHours()`
  - `now.getMinutes()`
  - `now.getSeconds()`
  - `now.getMilliseconds()`
  - `now.getTime()` the number of milliseconds since 1970 jan 1st 0 o clock (or called a timestamp). `Date.now()` is also a way to get the timestamp.  
- As long as we pass a timestamp, then we don't need to worry about the time gap.  
- two ways to make Date variable.  
````
var d = Date.parse('2015-06-24T19:49:22.875+08:00');
d; // 1435146562875
````
or
````
var d = new Date(2015, 5, 19, 20, 15, 30, 123);
d; // Fri Jun 19 2015 20:15:30 GMT+0800 (CST)
````
- to learn RegExp, need to know some signs:
  - `\d` means numbers.  
  - `\w` word or number  
  - `*` mean any number of  
  - `+` at least one  
  - `?` 1 or 0  
  - `{n}` n number of  
  - `{a, b}` any number of between a and b  
  - `a-z`  
  - `A-Z`  
  - `0-9`  
  - `\Sign` would make the sign available, eg. `\_`  
  - `[..]` to box them, eg. `[0-9a-zA-Z\_]+`  
  - `^` stands for the start
  - `$` stands for the end
  - `A|B` A or B
- `var reg = /../` to write an regexp. Can use `var reg = new RegExp('..')` to do the same, but need `\\` for `\`.  
- `RegExp` type has method `test`. eg. `reg.test('1ace');`  
- regexps can be used in the `split()` method of strings. eg. 
````
'a,b;; c  d'.split(/[\s\,\;]+/); // ['a', 'b', 'c', 'd']
````
- adding the `(..)` around parts of the regexp, then when you use the`exec(string)` method, you get an array of the parts extracted from the string. eg. 
````
var re = /^(\d{3})-(\d{3,8})$/;
re.exec('010-12345'); // ['010-12345', '010', '12345']
````
- this extraction uses greedy algorithm, so `(\d+)` will get as much as it can, but if you add `?` as `(\d+?)` it will as less as it can.  
- add `g` after expreg by `/\d/g` or `new RegExp('\\d', 'g')` would make it global and by calling the `exec()` method over and over, you get the parts available one by one. eg.  
````
var s = 'JavaScript, VBScript, JScript and ECMAScript';
var re=/[a-zA-Z]+Script/g;
re.exec(s); // ['JavaScript']
re.lastIndex; // 10
re.exec(s); // ['VBScript']
re.lastIndex; // 20
re.exec(s); // ['JScript']
re.lastIndex; // 29
re.exec(s); // ['ECMAScript']
re.lastIndex; // 44
re.exec(s); // null
````
- in json, strings and keys in objects must be in `".."`  
- use `JSON.stringify(Object)` or `
JSON.stringify(Object, null, '  ');
` to make an object into a json version object. The second param could be an array of the props you want (null for all) or a function you want to apply to all props.  
- we can also use a `toJSON` method to control what we want to come out of stringify. eg. 
````
var xiaoming = {
    name: 'XM',
    age: 14,
    gender: true,
    height: 1.65,
    toJSON: function () {
        return {
            'Name': this.name,
            'Age': this.age
        };
    }
};
JSON.stringify(xiaoming); // '{"Name":"XM","Age":14}'
````
- `JSON.parse` would make a json string into a js object. eg. `
JSON.parse('true'); // true` or `JSON.parse('{"name":"小明","age":14}'); // Object {name: '小明', age: 14}`.  
- `JSON.parse` could also take in a function as a second param to analyze the data gotten.  

object oriented programming
-
- js uses prototype instead of type for oop.  
- we can use `var obj = Object.create(prototype)` to create a copy of the prototype and then modify the props within it. Then `obj.__proto__=== prototype` would be true.  
- Use `obj.__proto__` to access the prototype.  
- have constructor function to make obj for us. eg.  
````
function Student(name) {
    this.name = name;
    this.hello = function () {
        alert('Hello, ' + this.name + '!');
    }
}
````
then use `new` to make and object with the Student prototype:  
````
var xiaoming = new Student('小明');
````   
This will automatically return `this`. Then their relation would be:  
````
xiaoming.constructor === Student.prototype.constructor; // true
Student.prototype.constructor === Student; // true
Object.getPrototypeOf(xiaoming) === Student.prototype; // true
xiaoming instanceof Student; // true
````  
- move same props of different objects to their common prototype to save memory: eg.  
````
Student.prototype.hello = function () {
    alert('Hello, ' + this.name + '!');
};
````   
- in case of forgetting to say `new`, which will cause many problems, we should have functions to do it for us: eg.  
````
function Student(props) {
    this.name = props.name || '匿名'; // default to'匿名'
    this.grade = props.grade || 1; // default to 1
}
function createStudent(props) {
    return new Student(props || {})
}
````  
so then we can also add any and as many props as we want: eg.  
````
var xiaoming = createStudent({
    name: '小明'
});
````
- then if we want to again use the `Student` object to create a `PrimaryStudent` object, we can do  
````
function PrimaryStudent(props) {
    // use the Student's constructor function on 'this'
    Student.call(this, props);
    this.grade = props.grade || 1;
}
````  
and we can make a `inherits` function to make `Student` the prototype of `PrimaryStudents`, notice we need an empty function to be in between:  
````
function inherits(Child, Parent) {
    var F = function () {};
    F.prototype = Parent.prototype;
    Child.prototype = new F();
    Child.prototype.constructor = Child;
}
````  
then we can again add props to `PrimaryStudents`:  
````
PrimaryStudent.prototype.getGrade = function () {
    return this.grade;
};
````
- we can also use the java style of writing classes, then we can have `PrimaryStudent` inherit `Student` by:  
````
class PrimaryStudent extends Student {
    constructor(name, grade) {
        super(name); // use super to get constructor method from parent
        this.grade = grade;
    }

    myGrade() {
        alert('I am at grade ' + this.grade);
    }
}
````
