8.2  
-
Today I went on learning more about ES6. As I expected there wasn't much hard as most of the stuff are things that I have already learn, so everything was simple to understand. However there was a lot of details and it was a very difficult time figuring out which information is important and which wasn't.  
So after I read the beginning yesterday, I started with the `let` and `const` commands today and went on to the destruction of variables. Everything was fine since then, but then suddenly came things about strings. The strings themselves weren't causing much of a problem, but as I went on I started to see things in decimal, octal and hexadecimal coding and the methods related with them. I read through the chapter and I got complete lost, but from the lesson yesterday I figured out that I shouldn't be worrying about it for now. I can come back any time in the future when I need to.  
And so I moved on to RegExps, and everything was again looking good, except the fact that there are so many details any it made me realize a single little difference may cause huge problems. I continued with Values, functions, Arrays and Objects, everything was the same, until I came to Symbols. Symbol is, in fact, something I've never heard of before and that made it really interesting to me. I went through the chapter and amazingly most of the stuff was making sense to me, there wasn't too much to worry about except some things that I believe I shouldn't be touching yet.  
That is all I learned today. 
