Generator functions and async 
- 
- use callback functions for async.  
- use promises and `then()` to prevent callback hell.  
- generator functions can pause and resume, this is why they can close async missions.  
- there can be `try catch` codes inside of generator functions, so that errors outside it wouldn't be caught.  
- Thunk functions are used to automatically use generator functions.  
- Thunk functions are to make multiple param functions into functions that take params one by one. eg. 
````javascript
var readFileThunk = Thunk(fs.readFile);
readFileThunk(fileA)(callback);
````
- `npm install thunify` to use the thunkify module.  
- eg of automatically using generators by thunkify:  
````javascript
var readFileThunk = thunkify(fs.readFile);
var gen = function* (){
  var r1 = yield readFileThunk('/etc/fstab');
  console.log(r1.toString());
  var r2 = yield readFileThunk('/etc/shells');
  console.log(r2.toString());
};
````
- automatic runner for generators: 
````javascript
function run(fn) {
  var gen = fn();
  function next(err, data) {
    var result = gen.next(data);
    if (result.done) return;
    result.value(next);
  }
  next();
}
````
- an easier way to automatically use generator functions.  
````javascript
var co = require('co');
co(gen);
````
- this returns a promise and so could be processed by `then`.  
- yielded values must be thunk functions or promise objects.  

async functions
- 
- syntactic sugar of generators.  
- change `*` to `async` and `yield` to `await`.  
- has its own runner, call by calling function.  
- returns promise.  
- errors thrown from inside async functions can be caught in the `then`, or `catch` method.  
- `then` is only called when everything inside the async function is done or there is an error.  
- if value after await is not promise, it will be changed to a resolved promise.  
- can use `try catch` inside the function so that function is not stopped when there is an error.  
- can use something like
````javascript
let [foo, bar] = await Promise.all([getFoo(), getBar()]);
````
to make the operations be called at the same time.  
- async = generator + runner.  
- if need to return a async operation in an iterator, then the generator has to return a thunk function or an promise object.  
- asyncIterators use `next` method to get a promise object.  
- the `next` of asyncIterators can be used at the same time: eg `Promise.all([])`
- or you can `next` multiple times and `await` the last one.  
- `for await...of` loops are for asyncIterators.  
- async generator functions returns asynciterators.  
- can use `await` and `yield` in async generator functions. Use `await` to make outer operation return values in to into the function, and `yield` to output it.  

class
- 
- eg of class in js:  
````javascript
class Point {
  constructor(x, y) {
    this.x = x;
    this.y = y;
  }
  toString() {
    return '(' + this.x + ', ' + this.y + ')';
  }
}
````
- all class methods are in fact defined in the prototype of the class.  
- use `Object.assign()` to add multiple methods at the same time.  
````javascript
class Point {
  constructor(){
    // ...
  }
}

Object.assign(Point.prototype, {
  toString(){},
  toValue(){}
});
````
- methods defined within classes are non-enumerable, but ones define using traditional methods (eg. `Point.prototype.toString = function() {};`) are enumerable.  
- now all codes are `'use strict'` by default.  

- didn't understand class 表达式. 
 
- adding `#` at the start of the prop or method names makes them private methods.  
- using `this.method()` can cause problems, so you can add `this.method = this.method.bind(this);` in the constructor to use it.  
- all classes have the `name` prop.  
- you can have getter and setter methods in classes. eg. 
````javascript
class MyClass {
  constructor() {
    // ...
  }
  get prop() {
    return 'getter';
  }
  set prop(value) {
    console.log('setter: '+value);
  }
}
let inst = new MyClass();
inst.prop = 123;
// setter: 123
inst.prop
// 'getter'
````
- add `*` before function to make it into generator function. Use `for...of` to iterate through such functions.  
- adding `static` before a method makes it into a static method that is not inherited by the children but instead called directly from the parent. Such static methods can also be called from `super`.  
- `class.prop` will call static props instead of `this` props.  
- add `static` before prop to make it static. (maybe?)
- the `new.target` prop is of `new` but is again within a obj and will be gained when `new` is used to define the obj, it is `undefined` if not.  
- `new.target` returns the class if used in the class.  
- `new.target` always returns child and not the parent.  

class extends
- 
- `class childClass extends parentClass {}` 
- `super(x, y)` to use parent methods to construct x and y (x, y are params of constructor).  
- `super.method()` to use parent methods.  
- must have `super` in constructor.  
- `this` can only be used after `super`.  
- `Object.getPrototypeOf(class)` to get the parent of the class.  
- `super()` is method when used in constructor meaning the parent's constructor. `super` is prop pointing to the `prototypr` obj of parent in normal methods and pointing to parent in static methods.  
- if prop is like `parentClass.prototype.prop = XXX`, then the prop could be called by `super` in the child.  
- `this` of the method point to the child's instance when called by the `super`. So assigning value to prop by `super` is just like assigning by `this`.  
- when using `super` in static functions, the `this` in the parent would point to the child instead of the instance.  
- `__proto__` point to parent, and `__proto__` in the `prototype` prop will point to the `prototype` of the parent.  
- classes can extend everything that is a obj (including functions).  
- classes can extend constructor functions.  eg. Error, Array
- function to make many objects into one:
````javascript
function mix(...mixins) {
  class Mix {}
  for (let mixin of mixins) {
    copyProperties(Mix.prototype, mixin); // 拷贝实例属性
    copyProperties(Mix.prototype, Reflect.getPrototypeOf(mixin)); // 拷贝原型属性
  }
  return Mix;
}
function copyProperties(target, source) {
  for (let key of Reflect.ownKeys(source)) {
    if ( key !== "constructor"
      && key !== "prototype"
      && key !== "name"
    ) {
      let desc = Object.getOwnPropertyDescriptor(source, key);
      Object.defineProperty(target, key, desc);
    }
  }
}
````

decorator
-
- eg of decorator: 
````javascript
@testable
class MyTestableClass {
  // ...
}
function testable(target) {
  target.isTestable = true;
}
MyTestableClass.isTestable // true
````
- can add another layer of function to add params: 
````javascript
function testable(isTestable) {
  return function(target) {
    target.isTestable = isTestable;
  }
}
````
- 
