Set n map
-
- `var set = new Set()` to make new set, accept array or an iterable as param to initialize.  
- sets cannot have same elems.  
- `Nan`s are equal in sets but `{}`s aren't.  
- set props and method:  
  - `set.size` prop returns number of elems.  
  - `set.add(elem)`  adds elem and returns set.  
  - `set.delete(elem)` deletes and returns bool of whether success or not.  
  - `set.has(elem)` returns bool.  
  - `set.clear()` clears all elems, no return 
- `Array.from(set)` : set => array.  
- four iterators of sets:
  - `set.keys()`
  - `set.values()`
  - `set.entries()`
  - `set.forEach()`
- use `for..of` directly on sets to iterate through values.  
- `...` uses `for..of` inside, so you can `[...set]`  
- weaksets are like sets, but can only have object elements and all elems are weak copied. 
- `ws = new WeakSet()`, accept array or an iterable as param to initialize but the elems of the array must be objects.  
- three methods: 
  - `ws.add(elem)` adds new elem
  - `ws.delete(elem)` deletes elem  
  - `ws.has(elem)` returns bool of has  
- weakset has no iterator.  
- maps = collection of key-value.
- map keys don;t have to be string.  
- `m.set(a, b)` to make a the key of b, and `m.get(a)` to get b.  
- `map = new Map()`, ccept array or an iterable as param to initialize.  
- `get()` looks for reference instead by value. The values are only the 'same' when they are primitive values and are strictly the same.   
- props and methods of maps:  
  - `map.size`
  - `map.set(key, value)`, returns the map
  - `map.get(key)`  
  - `map.has(key)`  
  - `map.delete(key)`  
  - `map.clear()`
- iterator of maps all like sets.  
- can use `...` eg. `[...map.keys()]`  
- `strMapToObj(map)` map to object (keys would all turn to strings)  
- `objToStrMap(obj)` object to map
- `strMapToJson(map)` map to json object (keys must be all strings)  
- `mapToArrayJson(map)` map to json array (can act like object)  
- `jsonToStrMao(jsonObj)`, opposite of `strMapToJson(map)`
- `jsonToMap(jsonArray)`, opposite of `mapToArrayJson(map)`  
- weakmaps are like maps, but keys must be objects and all keys are weakly called. All values are called normally.  
- weakmaps have no iterators, no `size` and no `clear()` method.  
- 
