7.29
-
\- When a branch is made, the HEAD pointer is pointed to it and everything committed goes to the branch. Then when you point master to the branch, this branch becomes the master.
\- ```$ git checkout -b branchName``` makes a new branch and points HEAD to it. ```-b branchName``` creates the branch and ```checkout``` moves to it. To just create a branch, you use ```$ git branch branchName```.
\- ```$ git branch``` would show all the branches and the current branch would be shown with a \*.
\- While in one branch (eg. master) you can ```$git merge otherBranch``` to merge the other branch to the current branch. Then after merging you can delete the other branch by ```$ git branch -d otherBranch```.
\- Note that if both branches have progress then there could be some conflicts.
\- When merging, by default git uses Fast forward mode, but then in log the branch being merged would not appear. If we use ```$ git merge --no--ff -m "message" otherBranch```, then the other branch merged would show up in the ```log``` history. The ```-m "message"``` is just added to show a message.
\- In practice, every developer should have his own branch and everyone should be merging their work to one branch that is not the master. The master should only be merged to from that other branch when a new version (eg. 1.0.12) comes out.
\- When fixing bugs, we should make a new branch for the bug fixing and then delete it after merging.
\- You can ```$ git stash``` to save your working directory and stage of this branch before you go to another branch. Then when you come back, you can simply ```$git stash pop``` and the saved data would be recovered (while the saved data would be deleted). ```pop``` means to first ```apply``` then ```drop```.
\- It's best to make a new branch for a new feature.
\- ```$ git branch -D brachName``` would delete the branch even if it is not merged.
\- To see the information in github, you can use ```$ git remote -v```.
\- ```$ git push origin branchName``` could push the local branch to the branch in the github origin, but if there is a conflict then you should first ```$ git pull``` to get the new branch and solve the conflict.
\- To pull a branch, you need to first link them. If you already have a local branch to link to, then just ```$ git branch --set-upstream-to=origin/branchName branchName``` . If not, then you can use ```$ git checkout -b branchName origin/branchName``` to create the branch and link it to the github branch in origin.
\- ```$ git rebase``` could make the log committed branch history that are not pushed into one single line and make it easier to read, but the changes of each commit would be changed.
\- Tag is a label to one commit. To add a tag to the HEAD, use ```$ git tag tagName``` or ```git tag -a tagName -m "message"``` to also have a message with the tag, but if you know the commit id of a commit then you can also use ```$ git tag tagName commitID```. Note that tags are always related to one local commit. If the commit is in two branches, then the tag would also be in both.
\- ```$ git tag``` could be used to see all the tags.
\- If you want to push one tag to github, then you should ```$git push origin tagName```, but if you want to push all tags that weren't pushed all in once, then ```$git push origin --tags```.
\- ```$ git tag -d tagName``` could delete the tag that have not been pushed to github, but if you deleted one that has been pushed, then you will also need to ```$git push origin :refs/tags/tagName``` to delete the tag in the origin.
\- In github, you can click the fork button to get a copy of the repository in your own github account. Then you can clone, push, and do whatever you want with the repository. If you want to share your changes with the official, you can send a pull request.
\-```$ git config --global color.ui true``` would allow git bash to show different colors.
\- You can create a .gitignore file in the working directory for git to ignore some files. You do not have to write the file yourself but instead you can find everything you need in https://github.com/github/gitignore. Then by adding in some files you yourself want git to ignore, the .gitignore file is done.
\- If you want to add an ignored file, you can ```$ git add -f fileName.type``` or if you think the .gitignore file has some problem, you can ```$ git check-ignore -v fileName.type``` to check.
\- You can also your own "hotkeys" for some words you don't type a lot. For example, st for status or ci for commit, or even unstage for 'reset HEAD'. All you need to do ```$ git config --global alias.ci commit```. Then every time you want to commit, all you need to do is ```$git ci -m "message"```. If you don't add ``--global`` then this configuration would only work for this git repository.
\- global configurations would be stored in a .gitconfig hidden file in the users folder, non-global one would be stored in the .git/config file.
